civilians. Some of the civilians were World War II
physically disabled paratroopers, you know,
that type of thing. But we had some civilians that
had never been in the military. Was your friend
right that it was a dead end? No. That was one of the
most interesting three years I'd ever spent.
Official reports were, in fact, I was recommended
for general officer by the by my boss and his boss,
and then we had a retired General Jeff Ballmer,
who's deceased now. He too gave me a plug, so. The
tour was cut short because I went to, was selected
for the War College. Now, during this time, Allen
Dulles was in charge of the CIA. Did you have any
work with him? Yep. Could you describe him? Tell me
about him. What kind of relations did you have with
Mr. Dulles? He was a real character. Interesting,
colorful character, I mean. When I say character,
I usually mean a positive rather than a colorful
character. Deep voice, talked loud, laughed a
lot. I remember one time we were having an
exercise,
which we used to have in the government. We don't do
it anymore. On evacuation war, you know,
evacuations. Of course, they will get back around
to that pretty soon. And we were having this
exercise out in the area and so in our scenario we
had a situation that we had written for Fabricate
Fiction of what could happen and some of the
personalities involved their reaction, like
some of them would get killed and so forth, take on
like that. And old Allen Dulles, I don't know how
much he knows or experienced, he's had wargaming
action, that's what this is, with civilians
seldom ever do. He really got a kick. He was just
coming by to visit, but he got so involved with
that, he wanted to sit down and listen to the whole
thing, and then return and say, by the way,
whatever happened, just like it actually was in
process, whatever happened to so-and-so. Was he a
good leader? Yeah, I think so. Of course, his
advantage was he had such prestige on the national
level, see, with his brother being Secretary of
State, and the two men, Eisenhower, I thought, was
very close to him. He had a sister, too, that was a
real strong individual, which I never did know
her. She was involved in a lot of diplomatic action
in Europe. Was there a lot of,
I should say, how did the Secretary of State and the
CIA Director, how did they get along together?
What were the relations between the CIA and the
State Department?
Well, you aren't talking about the two brothers.
You're talking about any Secretary of State. No,
I'm just talking about what the relations were
with the CIA. and the State Department during the
time that you were there? Oh, during? Yeah. I think
they're very good. You see, because, see, he's the
director of Central Intelligence. Sure. Which
includes, see, the State Department's got an
intelligence department, and, of course, the
services plus the defense intelligence. And,
uh... I never, I wasn't aware of any friction at all
between us. Because we had, we had joint groups at
work. I've
already forgotten the name now, but nearly every
operation that'd be planned,
not all of them, there'd be certain ones that
probably wouldn't, but any one of them, national
significance would be worked out and cleared in
this particular working group of CIA, state, and
the defense that represented them. And you
obviously haven't necessarily because all of
them have other plans and you can really foul up
things royally if you get somebody that's going
splashing around in some environment where
somebody else has made plans and is working with
them. But there was never any competition, nor was
there any at that time when I was there, as I was
aware of. They thought that the CIA was
running their own national policy.
The Bay of Pigs, of course, came along. That wasn't
while I was there. That came in 61, but there were a
couple of interesting incidents that happened.
One was the invasion, the Soviet invasion of
Hungary in 1956 when you were there. Do you
remember that? I mean, what was the CIA's response
to that? And did you have to have war plans for that?
No. Our war plans were coordinating our U.S.
assets, military, which obviously we don't have
in Hungary, we don't have in Poland. Right, okay.
with no i don't i don't worry i guess i recall more
reading the papers than anything else hungry
what about that it just seemed it seemed as i recall
back in those days not from the cia knowledge but uh
cia might have been involved in that we had we had
led the Hungarians to believe that we might come to
their aid if they resisted.
And I think that was all based on the propaganda on
the radio, whether it was the CIA's radio, whether
it was our information program, and then we didn't
produce. Right. What about Lebanon? Eisenhower
sending the troops in? Well, I was in Europe then.
And how about the problems with, the problems that
were growing with Laos and especially Vietnam? I
wasn't involved
in that. I mean, in CIA I
wasn't. Later on I was, because not only was it the
military, recommended against us, any
involvement. And the same thing we did in Korea,
the same thing we did in Vietnam.
Did you enjoy working with the CIA? Yeah. What did
you do? And I found those Ivy League people that
they talked about. You see, like we talked about
other things in combat, perceiving things. Now,
this individual here, probably he was, the
problem was, like we met the enemy and He is us, you
know. I think that individual was a problem. He
couldn't get along with these people, see, and so
he views them as being the villains rather than
himself because, no, I was working with Helms, you
know, who later on was the, he was a real fine guy and
easy to get along with. I found just the opposite of
it. What else? Was there anything that struck you
about Helms, the type of person he was? He was a
smooth operator. What do you mean? He was a real
sophisticated individual, a debonair. Both
he and his wife were very impressive individuals.
He's
a cultured lady. In other words, he moves very well
in high society. At
first, he was head of the Condescension Service,
the CDI. This character has just been fired. And he
worked very well with Dulles. Of course, Dulles
was over, as you know, CIA is divided in two. You've
got D.D. Allen and Kolesnick, and then you have the
other, which is overt intelligence, where you
have all the scientists and guys like you, you
know, who really study all of this. They can tell
you everything about agriculture and each of the,
any part of the USSR, what's happening in Siberia,
and oil, although some say their oil estimate was
incorrect. It seems to me scientific. They may
really have a tremendous talent. That's the thing
that impressed me when I got to CIA. How do you
attract this type of talent? I'm talking about now
intellectual talent. So I can see, they say, I
believe, obviously, a lot from Harvard.
intrigued, I think, some of these people for this
type of work, particularly the research, the
scientific point, which, of course, enables
these to write papers. Of course, they're
classified, but it's a lot of personal
satisfaction. What opinion did you have? And
you're sort of alluding to this now, but I'd like to
answer on this. And that is, your opinion of the top
level civilian bureaucrats at the CIA What did you
think of them? When I was there, I thought they were
tops because they were selected on ability. See,
like Heldner, he was a career man. He had been there
for years, so he knew everything about it. But when
you pull in a political appointee, like this
recent disaster, like I saw a cartoon today, they
asked him questions about, yes, I'm a friend with
the president. And what else you did? Well, my
company made paper clips of it. They said, fine,
and you're qualified to be at the CIA. And Dulles,
of course, was more of a political appointee.
However, he'd been in the business for years. He
goes all the way back to World War II. And he'd been
in Washington. He knew his way around in
Washington. I think it was a big mistake, and
Stansfield Turner, for example, he's a very
capable Navy admiral and that sort of thing, but he
tried to organize CIA like the Navy, and you can't
do that, and you can't deal with these, I call them
Ivy League, and I don't, Ivy League got a lot from
California, from Caltech, but you can't expect
them to respond to you if you treat everybody as if
they're a military organization.
So basically you had a high opinion of the
bureaucrats. Yeah. But not a very high opinion of
many of the political appointments. That's
right. It comes in. Because it shows. If you have
time to teach them, you know, I own the job
training. But
see, they've run into all these people all over. My
friend, who I can't remember his name, I'll talk
about that when we get to the joint staff. He became
head of CIA, and he was a career man. But they
accused him of being too honest. He went to
Congress and told them all about everything. In
the long run, he probably helped CIA more doing
that than getting up there and trying to double
talk and say, well, I'm just not free to discuss
this. But he's no longer there. Of course, he's
appalled by what's happening in the CIA. Because
it becomes just like a family, as I say. What's his
name? Maybe I'll think of it later on. I can't think
of it now. What was he? He's a previous...
He followed Hale. He's before Turner, really. Do
you remember who that was? No, he was quit. He was
free. Yeah, because Carter changed him, you know,
because after all he'd been there during the Nixon
years. Now in 1958 you left the CIA and went to the
Army War College. What was your opinion of that
college?
Well, of course, I'm a little biased to be in the
Army. I thought it was a real fine. Because it
enabled you, to begin with, there's no
examination. This is the year that you go there to
think, to study. The only requirement is that you
must write a thesis.
And it has to be a thesis. And it has been accepted. I
never did submit mine, but it has been accepted for
a master's degree, of course, if you do the other
subject. But the problem is that most of them are
classified, so they have to be rewritten to
declassify them, or they have to wait several
years. And so that, too, is very interesting
because, as any thesis is supposed to be, is an
original creative thing where you really
research it. And so it's really interesting
to do the research. Of course, you have to do that
all during the academic year, so most of that's
done at night. So it's not an easy course at all. But
it's national strategy. This is a place you have an
opportunity to relate weaponry with economy,
economics.
So at the end, you should have, and you use them. A
lot of civilians come in. And at the end, we have a
national seminar where you bring in all these
people from Washington, the Secretary of State, a
whole range of them. The Secretary of State, of
course, doesn't have time to participate, but you
have people who participate in that seminar, but
you also have some guest speakers I guess you'd
call that an enrichment program. They come and add
to and agree or disagree with what the national
seminar has come up as a national strategy for the
direction we should be going. Is it feasible? Is it
attainable? And all that. An entire year is moved
along in that way, which is supposed to result in a
product
that's qualified and eligible to move at the
highest level of government, whether it be state,
CIA, national defense. And you have students. We
have CIA there. We have State Department there. We
have Army and Navy, Marine. The
USIA, they usually have one there,
informational. I've often heard that the war
colleges are almost mandatory for one to be
promoted to generalship. That's pretty good.
There have been some promoted, but you'd have to
look a long while. And that's the reason why the
career ladder is a lot being written about that now
in our periodicals.
those who it has to really do for the 20-year
retirement which is critical now because it's
very costly and then you get into the double
dippers why does a person get out after 20 years at
20 years of course he gets half his retirement is
half of his base pay he's still young enough to get
another job some got another job in government So
they become what they call double-dippers, see?
Although he can't draw all of his other pay,
there's a limit. He gets about half of it,
something like that. I'm not aware of it. I've not
been following that. Well, why do they retire?
I've just told you that I'm going to say what you've
already concluded in court. But that time, if they
haven't been to the Armed Forces Staff College or
the Army War College or the Naval War College,
National War College, or the Air Force. We have
Army going to all of those, you know, the same as
Navy. And they all have the same equipment as far as
credit is concerned. Then they feel that they're
not going to, their chances of making general
officer, even those who go, the chances of making
general officer. I look at my classmate. We had 200
in my class, and I think we had, uh, 10 who made
general loss in that class. Some classes go as high
as 20, some as low as 5 or something. Another reason
why the Army has never discouraged that is because
many of those who stay in for 20 years are
non-regular and we need them and they're very
capable and they're good. We certainly don't want
to expand our regular Army to And then find out
later on you've got a contractor, a constrictor.
So it appeals to them. They stand for 20 years. And
do you think that it prepared you for a general
officer slot? I mean, did it give you the type of
education that a general officer should have? I
think so. See the two of your students. Just like I
had been to CIA and worked with them. Many of your
students have been in the Pentagon, and they bring
a lot of experience to that that shares with others
who may not have operated at that level, see. And
some are real good writers. In fact, we have a
problem with that. They only have about 15 to 20
minutes to go in there and write their position,
you know. And you have some who experience that,
boy, they just sit down and gifted writers that can
put concepts and ideas together on the first
draft. Well, I couldn't do that, but I could learn a
lot from their approach to it. And you get all these
together, sharing, and I say it's the end of the
year. It's really been a fun experience for me. And
I agree that it does, certainly. I thought I was
better prepared after that if I were to be
selected. I didn't think I was ever going to be
selected for colonel, I didn't mention that, but
in Iran, having not been in Korea when I went there
on a staff visit for a month, and all these other
people, you know, that really had gone through a
lot. But I was selected for it, and I couldn't
believe it when the sergeant came in and said, sir,
you're on the colonel's list. And now still, after
graduating from the War College, I hadn't been to
Korea, and the chances are with all these other
outstanding officers. See, the problem is, what
system? How can you possibly select, say, 50 a
year? That's about what we got in the Army. 50 a year
out of all those qualified colonels. That's where
luck comes into it a lot, because they all have
outstanding efficiency reports.
Because I've been on boards selecting...
Selecting majors to lieutenant colonels. And I'm
telling you, you go through all those records, and
you've got to come up with a limited number. And you
really do a lot of soul searching. Of course, you
have a team. They all look at it, and they all vote
what it amounts to. You know, what do you vote this
or not? Then you have to come back and work at it
again. And it is really a difficult job. And at one
time, it used to be selecting by name, like a Like we
talked about, General Marshall practically
selected all of the division commanders by name.
It isn't that way now. Colonel to Brigadier
General is strictly by record with this group
working on it. There's no doubt it helps you if you
happen to have somebody that you served under and
he says, oh, I know this individual here. He is
really top notch. He might have an advantage over
another, but they said, well, he's got an
outstanding record, but I don't know if any of you
know him. No, but I say, I know this guy here who
raided him, and I know the type of raider he is, and
if he says he's good, then he is.
Well, for the War College, you want to go to the next
one? Yeah, in 1958, then you went to Fort Riley,
Kansas. Right. What was your job there? Once
again, career management came to the Army War
College like they did at the Armed Forces Staff
College. Before the end of the course, I would call
them prima donnas. They're all jockeying for
position, you know, because everybody's in the
running, you know. All the students are jockeying
for position? Well, some of them, you know, for
assignments because, you know, the next one is
very, very important. Sure. And they want to be
with troops. You've got to command, see. command
the unit. That's another thing along with the
school. So these guys were going to the Pentagon
because they all had contacts there, you know,
checking on it. They'd come back and say, yeah, it
looks like I'm going to get a command. They asked
me, and I said, no, I don't know. Well, haven't you
been there? No, I haven't been there. But chances
are I won't get one. But I'll go ahead and let the
chips fall. So here comes General Ben Harold, who
headed the career management that I had served
with at Fort Benning in Italy, really. He's a third
division. So he came up, and I hadn't even talked to
him, but I spoke to him. And so he named off those who
got command. And he says, Colonel Andrews to the
first division at Fort Raleigh, command Johnson.
And my friends all came around the end, and he said,
Rascal, you knew this all this time, and you was
keeping us quiet. I said, no, I didn't have a clue.
I'm as surprised as you are. And some of them didn't
get their command. So I went to Fort Riley, and I was
assigned as the commanding officer of the 1st
Battle Group 18th Infantry. Yet at the time,
a colonel who was going to become chief of staff
didn't want to leave the 18th, and the generals
supported him, so I took command of the division
trains. What does that mean, division trains?
They're the support, the supporting division,
you know, the quartermaster and all of that. You
have the combat arms and then you have all of the
support division. Now, at that organization, at
that time, they were called division trains. So I
stayed there for about A couple of months, I guess,
before. And that was good experience because that
gave me an opportunity to work for the services.
I've been infantry all my life. Then I took the
first battle group. And the reason why I was due for
an overseas assignment, so that's the reason I got
this, because the 1st Division, at least the 1st
Battle Group, 18th Infantry, was going to move to
Germany. And they had a program called Gyroscope.
We were supposed to replace a battle group in
Germany, and that battle group would come back to
Raleigh in the 1st Division, and we would go to the
8th Division. That was Operation Charter School.
Yeah, that's what they called Charter School. So
we trained there. And the battle group was
terrific, and not because of me, although, of
course, I'd like to think I was a brilliant leader
that did it. But we trained our own recruits, and
our take of these young men Came from California.
Most of them just out of high school. They hadn't
been contaminated by anybody else. Hadn't been
called, you know, like they do in most training
centers to recruit. You know, they pick out the
higher IQ types. They go to one place and they call
through them. And then sometimes I say
contaminate them. They get them, the training is
wrong. You'll have a really receptive young man.
He becomes bitter because of the way he's been
treated. But we didn't have it. We got it at Fort
Riley, right out of high school. Some of them had
finished college. Some had two years of college
and decided, even though that maybe they could.
See, this was before Vietnam. But they decided
that they would fulfill their obligation. Really
tough. We trained them. Every bit of the training
they had, we gave it to them. And then we took them to
Europe. And they were receptive, for example.
There's always a big drive on to purchase a savings
bond. And I appealed to these young men. I said,
now, you'll be in two years. You might as well save
this money, because a lot of you are going to
college or finishing college. And this will be
saved. And that's the best advice I can give you,
because you'll be assured of this amount of money.
They signed up 100%. It is the size of the battle
group. Let me see now, we had five come in, around
1,200 men. 1,200 men? Did you, what did you think
about being a commander? This is really the first
time that you ever got a group like this, did you?
Well, of course, I commanded a battalion in World
War II. But I mean the first peacetime. And of
course, this was larger in numbers than the
battalion. Well, of course, I was thrilled.
Everybody,
I shouldn't say everybody, most Army types of
these, Well, it's the same thing in the Navy. The
Navy wants the command of a ship, and the Air Force
wants the command of a squadron, you know, where
you run your... It's the biggest thrill is what you
strive for, to command, to have a unit of your own,
and working with the officers, and having them to
respond to you. And it's the highest-rated corps
in that battle group, 18th Infantry. It has a long
history. It's one of the oldest units. in the Army.
So it was a high spree to court when I got there, so
I'm not the one who bolted and built and shooted up.
Of course, they were understrength, and so most of
our, and those who weren't eligible to go
overseas, they transferred out. So basically, we
had non-commissioned officers and officers, and
we brought in these recruits and trained them. So
it's really our unit. We didn't get a bunch of
transfer, you know, the troublemakers.
Were there major problems? No. Not at all. Some of
the other units, yes. So we moved, well, I'll give
you a problem, yes.
They publicized the gyroscope program. And so
some of the sergeants that we got transferred in to
become part of the gyroscope. They had married
German girls in Germany. So the German girls, of
course, wanted to go back to Germany. This was
their opportunity. And many of them had a very
unfortunate experience in the United States
because then mixed marriages, you know, at that
time you still, anybody on TV couldn't couldn't
kiss, for example, like they do now, you know, like
a guest on a tour. And so to be married, and
unfortunately some of these were southern
blacks, in some states it's against the law, you
know. They're actually, they couldn't even live
there. They lived there, they got arrested. So
this gave them an opportunity to go home. Yet we
didn't have space for them. In other words, we were
overstrength and we were only going to ship out
with the our signs, our authorized strength,
T-O-N-E. So it meant some of those weren't going to
be able to travel with us, go with us. Gosh, we had a
couple of German wives, they went to see Mimi,
appealed to them, please, some of them would come
to see me. Of course, the sergeants did. But for
some reason, fortunately, they didn't go with us,
but they went as replacements to Europe. They
shipped them out since they had to. And that took a
lot of bureaucratic work to get that authorized.
But they could still go as replacements in a pool,
not necessarily in 18th Avenue, but somewhere
else. So it turned out all right. But that was a
difficult problem. But we had one ship. Oh, no,
everybody's really high, including the draftee
to go to Europe. It's the best thing that could
happen to them for their concern. And it was
because they could travel. This was really an
experience for a young man at gun expense. And they
liked the military because we had parades. We
tried to make it not drudgery, but they, it's their
unit, you know. And you even appeal to them and they
respond to it. We don't want an AWL. And you can
influence others. If you find somebody that's
unhappy or thinking about that talk to him because
he's reflecting on us you know we don't want any awl
and we didn't have you know the first awls we had in
europe we got replacement we had a bunch of
characters two characters that came from the
united states put down their barracks bag and took
off took off for parents first awls we had in the in
the unit and that was quite a few months actually
And the trip was very good. We had a big ship for the
battle group. I flew, or we flew, ahead, so we'd be
there in Bremerhaven to meet them. The executive
also had other people aboard the ship, so the trip
was uneventful. Fogged in at Bremerhaven, which
is not unusual in Germany. Where was the battle
group stationed? Near Mannheim, Germany. And who
is your superior?
His headquarters is in
Bad Cross Mountain. Let me see. I
can't think of the name. During this, what—were
you with the NATO forces, part of the NATO forces?
Yeah. How'd you get along inside the NATO
structure? Well, of course, we— Go out on
maneuvers and stuff like that? Yeah.
We were a battle group there near Mannheim, real
near where we cross the Rhine when I tell you about
patent-directing traffic. And out at Coleman
Barracks, that's out of the suburb of Mannheim.
When
we first arrived there, we had to undergo a test to
convince the Army commander, Corps commander,
that we were combat ready. So we had that, as soon as
we arrived, a three-day exercise, which we passed
with a high mark. And this was the first really test
we had because the test we ran ourselves back in
Fort Riley was not a three-day test. It was about a
day and a half. So the only time we had that was
necessary to complete our cycle for the BL. But we
did very well on that test. And then we trained, of
course. We had training airs in the barge around
the train. And then we would go to I met, I don't know
his name here, Kaiselard, a big German, was a
German, training here, and then he was a Frenchman
now. Trained there as a unit. And then once a year
you have a training test for three days. Every
month you have unannounced alerts.
And those are good tests because then you can
measure how quickly that you can assemble a unit,
get their equipment, and move out to a dispersal
area out of the barracks. Sometime we would move
there on to a training area, but most times you just
acted as an all-air, and you reported the time it
took you to close in. If you called off, you
returned back and cleaned
your equipment the rest of that year. One
interesting side note, at least to me, I told you
these outstanding people that they weren't all
from California. I had from the University of
Kentucky. I had one of their basketball stars.
They didn't call him. And I forget his name, too. I
can look it up. I got him. Clip him up there in the
book up there.
Real fine young man from California. I don't
remember. I think he played on the junior college.
We had five good basketball players. We won the
first division champion at Fort Riley. Moved to
Germany. We were in eighth division. And they had a
delayed basketball season there because of the
gyroscope. And we won the eighth division
championship. You know, here in one year, they won
two division championships. That's fantastic.
That's really good. Had a little guy, real short.
He was a Harlem grope-crawler type, you know. Boy,
he could dribble. He was fast. He weeded way down
through that. Finally get it to the tall
University of Kentucky that he had an overhead
loop shot. As he fade away, you know. How did the
American troops get along with the German
civilians? Oh, now at this time, sure. Excellent.
My wife Mimi was president of the German-American
Women's Club. And of course she was president of
ours also in the 18th Infantry.
So we met, well she met with them, of course, but we
had parties together. They had plans, social
functions, charity things, which all here are
very active. It was excellent. The press was good
to us. We got good press, the German papers and
Mannheim. And the
troops got along well in the community. And by that
time, sometimes there was resentment against the
blacks. But by that time, they had certain taverns
which were receptive to blacks. And these were the
ones that you had a mixed marriage would go to those
because the resentment wasn't so much against the
black as it was against that blonde German girl
from there in the black. They took the view of one of
them, a real fine sergeant. We had a boxer. That's
another 18th Infantry. We had champion boxers. I
inherited those, but I took those over with us. So
we had champions
in the division. But they fought the Germans, too.
The Germans, of course, they had great boxers, you
know, from the Shmelian days. Only bad thing about
that, we had to wear the headband, you know, so we
wouldn't have injuries. Of course, the Germans
didn't. Some of the Germans didn't understand.
But we always offered them. They should wear them
since we were wearing them. But they'd usually
say, no, we don't want to. but some of the German
people thought that, you know, not only was he
black and big and good as far as a bargain, he was
equipped with these guys, but he was protected.
So all of that, all the relationships in our battle
group had the best record, disciplinary records.
Did it, really? Yeah. How can you account for that?
Well, because of these young men we had. They just
hired tight. They weren't a cross-section of USA.
It was a select group. And we had less demerits, I
say disciplinary, no AWLs for a long time. We had
less maintenance, deadline vehicles. And by all
of the measurements, and we'd have our
commander's conference, and the division
headquarters always had all of these different
disciplinary items on the wall. And we were always
the lowest. The highest was the paratroopers.
They had two battle groups, paratroopers. Of
course, they always proving their manhood and
their fighting and drinking. Sure. They had the
worst. Do you think that Your success at this job
and the fact that the group is so outstanding, do
you think that was one of the major reasons for your
rise to generalship? Yeah, because you have to be
recommended. Sure. And so the division commander
gave me a high-efficiency report and recommended
me for General Lawson. And that's another one the
board meets. If this individual had been
recommended, by a number of general officers. And
I don't mean by just a letter, because he wrote
solicitors and said, would you write me a letter?
You know, he served with them over a period of time.
Well, then that has a weight. But my next
assignment probably contributed more or as much
as this one. And you stayed right in Germany then
for the next two years. Yeah. Now, with the 7th
United States Army Support Command in Europe, no.
What exactly were you doing in this? See, that's in
Mannheim also. I bet you're sorry to give up your
own personal command. Oh, yeah. We even had our own
theme song.
And this was really popular with the Germans
because the name of it was Happy Heiming. And it was
a composite of two German folk songs. And the 18th
Infantry had that for years, wasn't it? And we had
our own band, unauthorized band, and our own honor
guard, unauthorized. And how we did that, and I
inherited this, so this is not my brilliant idea.
It got us in trouble in Europe. One platoon of a
unit.
We put all of the honor guard in one platoon, but one
platoon was the honor guard. And honor guard means
we did all this drilling, you know, like the
Marines do in Washington at the Marine. All the
fancy rifle stuff. Plus, they really were honor
guards. And on field exercises, they provided the
security for the headquarters. Always, you've
got to get it from somewhere, you know. These were
trains. That's what you had to say. That's what
impressed us when we first impressed the corps
commander we got in Germany. He came down, he
called it a war camp, an operation, whatever. And
we had these two guys outside going. And boy, they
snapped to attention. Of course, they could
really make that rifle, you know, snap since they
were training it. And he stopped and
double-taped, started talking to them, how long
you been to Army and all that sort of thing. Of
course, they were just like everybody else. They
just had the skill. And the band was another
platoon of another unit. And we had our own
instruments. And it was about a 12-piece band. It
wasn't very large, but they could play music. But
what was thrilling, even in the First Division,
when the 18th Infantry would come, the band would
stop whatever marks they were playing and play
Happy Heine until we were all done. So anything
that was 18th Infantry, that was a song.
When we got to Europe, though, and these rifles, we
had chrome rifles for the honor guard. The old 03,
the old rifles, all chromed up, chrome domed.
We'd gotten word that we weren't permitted to use
those chrome rifles or couldn't use a band. It was
unauthorized. So when we landed, automatically,
the band came out in the honor guard with the colors
off the ship first and lined up for everybody else.
And they were playing not only Happy Heine, but
other pieces.
And the division commander came up to me and he
said, you know, you're not supposed to have this. I
said, I know it. morale building. Everybody likes
it. He said, well, I tell you, I won't tell the Army
Commander if you won't. So we just never did show
those things when they were out. We still had our
own parade battle groups. Every chance we got a
happy honey, we'd go out
and do it. So all those things would keep morale
high. Yeah. That was top notch. I'm telling you.
Just like a an athletic group that's really fired
up, you know. And nearly all of them, I know all of
them weren't that way, but the peer pressure kept a
lot of them in line. Sure. You know, you jerks, if we
go to do it this way, we get a long fine.
So 7th Army Support Command was the Army support,
just like Division Trains was in the 1st Division.
This dealt with the entire 7th Army? That's right,
support. So they're scattered and concerned all
through Germany, just our headquarters in
Mannheim. So that job, and I was chief of staff at
the time, and my job, besides being the chief of
staff duties, I conducted inspections for the
commanding general on all these quartermaster,
engineer, chemical, You just name it, all the
facilities. So that got me out of the office, which
I wanted to do. So I enjoyed that very much. Now, the
commanding general then was General Shervin. And
they put him there because he was an airborne
general. He commanded the 101st. And General
Bruce Clark wanted the support units to have the
same standards that you have other ones.
soldierly quality, that is, in addition to their
technical ability. And Sherwin had done a good job
in establishing this standard. And he asked for me
to be chief of staff since we live right up the
street from him. And I became his chief of staff.
Moved across the street and that caused a big
problem because